---
title: Manage a cluster
titleDir: Bare metal
description: How to manage clusters
tag: Guide
---
Clicking the cluster machine's ID from the cluster machine list will show you the cluster machine details page.

You can use the quick buttons at the top right-hand side of the page to:

- [Resize a cluster](#resize-a-cluster)
    - [Machine count](#machine-count)
    - [SSH keys](#ssh-keys)
    - [Start script](#start-script)
- [Delete a cluster](#delete-a-cluster)

## Resize a cluster

To resize a cluster, click the **Resize cluster** item from the options menu on the cluster machines list page. Or you can select **Resize cluster** from the quick actions on the cluster details page.

#### Machine count
Enter the new number of machines you would like in your cluster, and click **Resize cluster**. This will add or remove machines from your cluster as required.

::Alert{variant="warning"}
Resizing a cluster this way will delete arbitrary cluster machines until the new machine count is hit. If you would like to delete individual machines see [delete cluster machine](/docs/clusters/manage-cluster-machines#delete-a-cluster-machine)
::

#### SSH keys
You can configure the SSH keys you would like to be deployed to your cluster machines. You can choose from the following options:

- **Include all project collaborator keys** - This will include the keys of all the users that you have given access to your project
- **Include only my keys** - This will include just the keys you have added
- **Use custom keys** - This will allow you to add any keys you wish for these cluster machines

#### Start script
You can configure a start script that will be run on the first boot of each of your cluster machines. This can be used to install software, configure services, or perform any other setup tasks you need.

## Delete a cluster

To delete a machine, you can use the **Delete cluster** item from the options menu on the cluster machines list page. Or you can select **Delete cluster** from the quick actions on the cluster details page.
