---
title: Manage cluster machines
titleDir: Clusters
description: How to manage individual cluster machines
tag: Guide
---

## Manage cluster machines
To manage individual cluster machines, navigate to the [cluster machines list page](/docs/clusters/manage-a-cluster) and click on the ID of the machine you wish to manage. This will take you to the cluster details details page.

From here, you will see a list of all the cluster machines in your cluster, and you can perform the following actions:

- [Manage cluster machines](#manage-cluster-machines)
- [Connect to a cluster machine](#connect-to-a-cluster-machine)
- [Reboot a cluster machine](#reboot-a-cluster-machine)
- [Rename a cluster machine](#rename-a-cluster-machine)
- [Attach a volume to a cluster machine](#attach-a-volume-to-a-cluster-machine)
- [Detach a volume from a cluster machine](#detach-a-volume-from-a-cluster-machine)
- [Delete a cluster machine](#delete-a-cluster-machine)

## Connect to a cluster machine
To connect to a cluster machine, click the options button next to the cluster machine you wish to connect to and select **SSH**. Then copy the command into your terminal and run it to connect to the cluster machine.

## Reboot a cluster machine
To reboot a cluster machine, click the options button next to the cluster machine you wish to reboot and select **Reboot** from the dropdown menu.

## Rename a cluster machine
To rename a cluster machine, click the options button next to the cluster machine you wish to rename and select **Rename** from the dropdown menu.

The rename cluster machine dialog will open and ask you for a new name for the custer machine. Enter a new name and click **Rename** to rename the cluster machine.

## Attach a volume to a cluster machine
To attach a volume to a cluster machine, click the options button next to the cluster machine you wish to attach a volume to and select **Attach volume** from the dropdown menu.

The attach volume dialog will open. Select a volume to attach to the cluster machine and click **Attach volume** to confirm.

## Detach a volume from a cluster machine
To detach a volume to a cluster machine, click the options button next to the cluster machine you wish to detach a volume from and select **Detach volume** from the dropdown menu.

The attach volume dialog will open and you can click **Detach volume** to confirm.

## Delete a cluster machine
To delete a cluster machine, click the options button next to the cluster machine you wish to rename and select **Delete** from the dropdown menu.

The delete cluster machine dialog will open and ask you you to enter the name of the cluster machine. Enter the name and click **Delete** to confirm cluster machine deletion.
