---
title: Manage a virtual machine
titleDir: Virtual machines
description: How to manage virtual machines
tag: ["Guide", "Virtual machines"]
---

## View a virtual machine

Clicking the virtual machine's ID from the virtual machine list will show you the virtual machine details page.

You can use the quick buttons at the top right-hand side of the page to:
- [Stop](#stop-a-virtual-machine)
- [Start](#start-a-virtual-machine)
- [Reboot](#reboot-a-virtual-machine)
- [SSH](/docs/virtual-machines/connect-to-a-virtual-machine)
- [Start a VNC session](/docs/virtual-machines/connect-to-a-virtual-machine)
- [Resize](/docs/virtual-machines/resize-a-virtual-machine)
- [Delete](#delete-a-virtual-machine)

To view monitoring information for your virtual machine, click the "Monitoring" item from the sidebar, or click "View CPU monitoring" or "View memory monitoring" from the charts on the virtual machine details page.

## Stop a virtual machine

To stop a virtual machine, you can use the "Stop virtual machine" item from the options menu on the virtual machines list page. Or you can use the quick buttons at the top right-hand side of the virtual machine details page.

::Alert{variant="warning"}
Stopping a virtual machine does not stop you from being charged for it. To stop being charged for a virtual machine, you must click **Delete virtual machine**.
::

## Start a virtual machine

To start a stopped virtual machine, you can use the "Start virtual machine" item from the options menu on the virtual machines list page. Or you can use the quick buttons at the top right-hand side of the virtual machine details page.

## Reboot a virtual machine

To reboot a virtual machine, you can use the "Reboot virtual machine" item from the options menu on the virtual machines list page. Or you can use the quick buttons at the top right-hand side of the virtual machine details page.

## Delete a virtual machine

To delete a virtual machine, you can use the "Delete virtual machine" item from the options menu on the virtual machines list page. Or you can use the quick buttons at the top right-hand side of the virtual machine details page.
