---
title: Create a cluster
titleDir: Clusters
description: Learn how to create and configure a cluster on CUDO Compute
tag: Guide
---

Navigate to the project you wish to create a cluster in. Then, navigate to "clusters" from the side navigation and click 'Create cluster' or [follow this link](https://compute.cudo.org/?create=cluster).

## Configuration

### Name
Enter a name for your cluster. This will be used to identify your cluster in the clusters list.

::Alert
Your cluster name must be 1 to 30 characters in length, can only contain lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens, must start with a letter, cannot end with a hyphen and cannot be in use.
::

### Data center
By default, your cluster will be deployed to the cheapest data center available depending on your configuration. If you have a specific data center you would like to deploy to, you can select it from the "Data center" options.

### Machine type

Here you can configure the machine type you would like to deploy. The specifications of the machines will be shown as a list, selecting one will show you the specifications in the summary on the right-hand side.

We recommend selecting a machine type that suits your workload for example with Infiniband if you need high-speed networking between cluster machines. If you are unsure, please contact us.

### SSH keys
You can configure the SSH keys you would like to be deployed to your cluster machines. You can choose from the following options:

- **Include all project collaborator keys** - This will include the keys of all the users that you have given access to your project
- **Include only my keys** - This will include just the keys you have added
- **Use custom keys** - This will allow you to add any keys you wish for these cluster machines

### Start script
You can configure a start script that will be run on the first boot of each of your cluster machines. This can be used to install software, configure services, or perform any other setup tasks you need.

### Summary
On the right-hand side, you can see a summary of your cluster, with estimated costs prior to creating it. You can also use the hourly/monthly toggle to show estimated pricing for those lengths of time.

Once you are happy, click **"Create cluster"** and your cluster will be built and deployed.
