---
title: Command line
titleDir: Object storage
description: Interact with CUDO Compute's object storage using s3cmd & s5cmd
tag: Guide
---

When working with S3-compatible object storage, two popular command-line tools are s3cmd and s5cmd. Both tools allow you to interact with object storage services, but they have different strengths:
- **s3cmd**: A versatile and widely-used tool for managing S3-compatible storage. It supports a wide range of operations and is known for its comprehensive feature set.
- **s5cmd**: A newer tool designed for high-performance and parallel operations. It excels in speed and efficiency, especially when dealing with large datasets.

## s3cmd
### Installation
**s3cmd** can be installed using various package managers or directly from its source. Here, we'll cover installation using pip, the Python package manager.

Install s3cmd using pip:
```shell
pip install s3cmd
````
### Configure s3cmd
s3cmd needs to be configured to point to CUDO's object storage and have a copy of your object storage credentials. To complete this step you must have created a bucket and an object storage user on CUDO Compute's web console. Follow See [this](/docs/object-storage/create-a-user) tutorial if you haven't done that already.

#### Find your access key and secret key
- **Project > Object storage > Users > Click your object storage username**

#### Find the CUDO S3 endpoint

- **Project > Object storage > Buckets > Click your bucket name**

#### Method 1: interactive
```shell
s3cmd --configure
````
Follow the prompts to enter your access key, secret key, and endpoint URL.
1. ``Access Key``: Enter the Access key for your user; found on the web console; looks like: 1F60EEH43228DYC12V5Q
1. ``Secret Key``: Enter the Secret key for your user; found on the web console; looks like: 1F60EEH43228DYC12V5Q
1. ``Default Region [US]``: Press enter to ignore
1. ``S3 Endpoint [s3.amazonaws.com]``: Use the value from the web console, on your bucket page, but remove the ``https://`` like this: ``s3.gb-bournemouth-1.storage.cudo.org``
1. ``DNS-style ... [%(bucket)s.s3.amazonaws.com]``: Press enter to ignore
1. ``Encryption password``: Press enter to ignore
1. ``Path to GPG program [/usr/bin/gpg]``: Press enter to ignore
1. ``Use HTTPS protocol [Yes]``: Press enter to ignore
1. ``HTTP Proxy server name``: Press enter to ignore
1. ``Test access with supplied credentials? [Y/n]``: Press Y
1. ``Save settings? [y/N]``: Press y

Your configuration is saved to ``~/.s3cfg``; run the following to see it:

```shell
cat ~/.s3cfg
```

Let's check your buckets by listing them, run this command:

```shell
s3cmd ls
```

### Using s3cmd
#### Listing Buckets and Files

To list all buckets in your storage:
```shell
s3cmd ls
```

To list files in a specific bucket:

```shell
s3cmd ls s3://your-bucket-name
```

#### Uploading Files

To upload a file from your local PC to a bucket:
```shell
s3cmd put local-file.txt s3://your-bucket-name/
```

#### Removing Files
To remove a file from a bucket:
```shell
s3cmd del s3://your-bucket-name/file-to-remove.txt
```

More information about using s3cmd and transferring files between clouds can be found [here](https://s3tools.org/usage)
